# Credit card fraud detection using machine learning
A credit card is a convenient financial product that can be used for everyday purchases. Frauds in credit card transactions are common today as most of us are using the credit card payment methods more frequently. This is due to the advancement of technology and increase in online transactions and credit card fraud comes out as a serious problem.The main challenges in credit card fraud detection are to recognize fraudulent credit card transactions so that the customers of credit card companies are not charged for items that they did not purchase. Huge amount of data is processed everyday and most of the transactions are not fraudulent, which makes it really hard for detecting the fraudulent ones. Therefore, there is need for effective methods to reduce the loss.
So, we can use Machine learning techniques due to their beneficial characteristics to build a good fitting model to identify fraudulent transactions.Our aim is to build a machine learning model that must be simple and fast enough to detect the anomaly and classify it as a fraudulent transaction as quickly as possible. For this study we have used the publically available credit card fraud detection dataset from Kaggle. The dataset is highly imbalanced with 492 frauds out of 284,807 transactions.  We have applied different machine learning techniques and their performances are compared based on accuracy, precision, recall and execution time. The model that gives the best performance in less time is used for fraud detection.
The dataset contains the transactions made by credit cards in September 2013 by European Card holders. This dataset presents transactions that occurred in two days, where we have 492 frauds out of 284,807 transactions. The dataset is highly unbalanced, the positive class (frauds) account for 0.172% of all transactions.
It contains only numerical input variables which are the result of a PCA transformation. Unfortunately, due to confidentiality issues, the original features and more background information about the data are not available. Features V1, V2, … V28 are the principal components obtained with PCA, the only features which have not been transformed with PCA are ‘Time’ and ‘Amount’. Feature ‘Time’ contains the seconds elapsed between each transaction and the first transaction in the dataset. The feature ‘Amount’ is the transaction Amount, this feature can be used for example-dependent cost-sensitive learning. Feature ‘Class’ is the response variable and it takes value 1 in case of fraud and 0 otherwise.
Confusion matrix accuracy is not meaningful for unbalanced classification. Dataset link:https://www.kaggle.com/mlg-ulb/creditcardfraud
